welcome to sam's business growth show
i'm sam dunning a digital marketing
sales and business growth evangelist
tune in and subscribe today as i'll be
interviewing business leaders
experts and entrepreneurs from around
the globe you'll be learning their story
how digital marketing has helped them
along the way and exclusive tips
insights to help you skyrocket your own
[Music]
business
hello everyone and hi to welcome to
another linkedin live
and welcome back to a fresh episode of
sam's business growth show
i'm delighted to be joined by james
baldwin today
james director of client outbrown
strategy and training outbound view
sales training and coaching is a huge
passion of his he's been doing it for
well over 12 years now
and he's spent the last five years
building outbound sales team
and seeing what actually works so most
recently in outsourced and consulting
sales development world he also co-hosts
the podcast
assistant to the regional which is about
the tv show the office
which i love fantastic comedy uh both in
uk and the u.s
um and that's from the point of view of
a salesperson and he also produces the
lunch break podcast
plus he's a huge advocate of mindfulness
in business and especially sales
james a very warm welcome dude how are
you sir
fired up to be here with you sam uh
thank you so much for having me on
awesome man so as always plenty we want
to jump into
um we're going to learn all things tips
tricks actionable
strategies that people can put into play
from tuning in and listening from today
onwards
um but before we get to that good stuff
it'd be good to have a bit of background
on yourself um in terms of
where you grew up how you got into the
business world and a few highlights
um of some of the sales roles you've had
uh that's for now that'd be great
absolutely so i grew up in raleigh north
carolina
uh which is where i still live uh it's
one of the few places
that uh has gotten cooler the older that
i've gotten most places you kind of feel
like you outgrow your hometown
raleigh i can't seem to catch up with
all of the new things to do so
it's still here in raleigh and really
like a lot of people uh had no intention
of being in sales uh there were probably
if i looked back
inklings that sales was probably a good
idea
a good career for me to pursue i loved i
wanted to be an actor when i was younger
i did theater
i was in every play in high school so i
never was afraid to
be on stage talk to people
i could turn on the extrovert when i
needed to
but never considered it seriously i
wanted to be a rapper
for oh yeah i was all in
on uh you know becoming a
famous rapper from the time i was 18 to
the time i was about 20
and um then as
typically happens life kind of came in
and said hey
something else is going to go down and i
had my first child
at 21 so i had to
yeah a super fantastic event in my life
and uh but but that meant that i had to
figure out a way to to really
make some income and so kids i was
walking
yeah absolutely uh and so i was walking
through the mall
and stressed out trying to figure out
what i was gonna do
walked by the radio shack they were
hiring and that was my first sales job
uh so that's literally how much thought
i put into it just to stroll through
them all
um so i started out in retail sales
worked in retail sales for about five
years
uh in the i ended up selling cell phones
of verizon at t all the big ones
um and eventually wanted to figure out
uh
what a weekend felt like what a normal
work schedule was like yeah dude i mean
um
it's interesting you grew up i didn't
know you're from raleigh north carolina
that's one of the places in america i've
actually been
funny enough without boring everyone too
much i went on a scout trip
when i was about 14 or so we went there
for three weeks lovely lovely part of
the world so i loved it
um love it and uh yeah interesting so
you wanted to be an actor that didn't
quite work out then did a bit of rapping
and then fell into a sales job like many
of us do
um yeah interesting you said retail a
lot of people that have
passed listened to my past episodes will
know that that's one of the first roles
i had
in terms of a camera shop how did you
find that james because retail's pretty
cut throat dealing with people face to
face rather than inside sales where you
can talk to money zoom cool or skype or
over the phone is
you're in the front of it you're there
and you can't really avoid anything
so tell us a bit more how you found that
and and any lessons you learned in sales
or business
yeah definitely learn some lessons in my
days in retail
i had very little knowledge of the
business world
i didn't go i didn't go to a four-year
college and get a business degree i went
to like a full sale
and got my digital audio so i i really
the only version of sales i thought
about or knew about were car
sales retail sales things like that so
to me i wasn't even aware that there was
another world out there so
that was part of it i was like well if i
want to be in sales then this is it
i've got to do this um and
absolutely i when i first started
super timid would stand at the back of
the store
really just try and ride out my seven or
eight hours
without any incident and like messing
anything up
that gets boring even for somebody that
is scared
like i was so eventually you know i
got training and started to try a little
bit but it wasn't really for two or
three years until i
started selling cell phones had a few
good managers
that inspired me to to want to be
good at my job essentially um and so
yes it was tough but i learned
really the first thing i learned was
that
it was up to me to
become a professional there was never
going to be any any
point where i was going to be able to
level up in my career
in anything whether it was in sales or
being a rapper or being an actor you
know
those things i never actually tried to
do those things i just wanted to do
those things
right so this was actually the first
time in my life where i was doing
something
and could set some goals and so
uh dove really deep into
once i kind of caught the bug i just
really deep into the personal
development
reading the books zig ziglar brian tracy
yeah all of it just consumed as much as
i could
uh and so that that taught me
you got to take it you got to own your
own career and you really
can't wait for anybody to come in and
train you because in the retail world
it's that space is notorious for not
enabling their people and not
training their sales people properly so
i definitely was not getting
good training let alone sometimes even
good management or good leadership so
that was the biggest lesson that i
learned and it really changed the
trajectory of my whole life if i
think about it that's a great lesson man
i can relate a lot
so without boring everyone too much but
when i was in retail when i was selling
cameras
at this retail shop there was barely a
day's training i think they sent us for
one day's training in perhaps the two
years i was there
and i eventually just walked out because
i had enough but um
yeah much much like you said there was
there was no perks there was no
incentives it was yeah you need to sell
these high-value cameras you need to
sell these add-ons like memory cards
screen protectors insurance plans this
and that
there's no commission scheme there's no
bonus structures like why should i be
selling all this stuff
um anyway back back to the points you've
raised um
owning your own career or owning your um
the things you do as a professional
great point um and
and doing things like reading listening
to podcasts listening to videos whatever
it may be
um how would you say that's helped you
specifically james has it done things
like giving you new ideas in terms of
strategies in terms of sales process or
why has that helped you at
a very basic level it it gave me a
visible path forward
because like i said i i didn't go to
business school
i really didn't know i was i was an
artsy
theater kid that wanted to be doing
music i mean
so i just really had no clue what i was
getting myself into i had no real
idea about what what how am i gonna turn
this into something that that is long
lasting that's sustainable
and so diving into that training and
adopting that mindset of kind of owning
my career development it just
gave me a view of like okay so all of
these people out here the zig ziglars
all of these different authors
you know i loved zig because he started
out selling knives door to door or
i think appliances door-to-door so that
was like oh that's me
and here he is years later he's built
this career so
gave me a path forward but then really
started to give me some things that i
could start to try like tactical things
that i could start i could read
something
highlight it make a note and then go
tomorrow
on the sales floor and try it out and
see that it works and put my own spin on
it
and then once you get a taste of that i
i i've always been
a lover of learning new things i just
never
thought that i could enjoy learning new
things about selling
and so once i once i got that
light bulb turned on it was it was off
to the races and
and my biggest thing is if i'm
reading a book a business related book
on sales
it's got i got i have to be highlighting
i have to be writing and then i have to
be go
like applying because for a while there
i i got inundated with reading too many
books and not doing any of it and then
it just becomes mush in your brain so
very intentional about if i'm reading a
book that's giving me advice on
my career or something tactical that i'm
actually going out there and trying to
use it
definitely man that's reading yeah yeah
that makes sense i love that you said
learning it and then actually applying
it so whether it's highlighting it
whether it's taking notes on your phone
whatever it may be
actually putting the advice into action
it's amazing like you said when i first
started reading i'm i'm
i'm a pretty slow reader so i tend to be
listening to audio books or podcasts but
when you start putting things to action
like these strategies that you've never
heard of be it a sales tip marketing tip
or strategy and they start working
on prospects it's just it's just like a
light bulb moment isn't it it's like why
wasn't i
investing in myself before why wasn't i
doing personal balance while
i was just reading one or two books a
month at least because it helps you so
much
and it doesn't take it's not hard is it
to do in the morning or during the
evening
a couple hours that's cool man
okay so moving forward past the past the
retail for five years what was what was
next up james
yeah so i was lucky enough to get
because making that transition is hard
when you do something for five or six
years you work in a space and then
trying to make the switch over
it was tough so i was applying to all
the places doing all the things
not getting any response luckily had a
friend that started working
for a paper company an office supply
company and they were
growing an inside sales team and
i when i was working selling cell phones
the last couple of years that i was
doing it i
would make videos youtube videos while i
was driving to work
and on my phone about sales
and one of my buddies saw it and showed
it to the vp of sales at that office
supply company and he was like oh that's
awesome that that guy
likes sales enough to make youtube
videos about it on his way to work bring
him in here
and so that kind of got my foot in the
door that was my first
b2b you know um non-retail
monday through friday eight to five is
this real
can i actually be a salesperson and not
work on the weekend's job
so super grateful for that opportunity
because again
that was another moment where my career
really um
took a turn yeah that's awesome that you
got the job as well
from doing youtube videos that's a great
way to stand out
and how did you find that transition
moving from business to consumer to
business to business was it tricky
yeah it was i was scared of the phone
uh very scared of the phone it was
foreign
i didn't know what to do so of course
lots of fear behind it but
i was in an environment where like i
said they were growing the team so
everybody was new
pretty much nobody really knew what they
were doing there
a lot of the folks had experience in
sales and they were great about
coming to me and they could see that i
wanted to learn and that i was hungry to
learn
so they would help me and got some
really great advice early on
about how to deal with some of that
anxiety and
of picking up the phone and then once i
got into the swing of it it was
it it was great it took a little bit of
getting used to because there was way
more down time
in uh you know in retails
on a busy day it's a 12-hour day and
it's bell to bell and you're just
moving and rolling you know an eight to
five day where you spend three hours a
day
cold calling a couple of hours in a
meeting an hour for lunch you know it's
like wow
you know this is a different pace so
that was a transition for me
a welcomed one um but within six months
i i
got promoted to lead uh the team
uh a portion of the growing team so
i felt fortunate to to yeah be in a
position where
i thrived and got some help early on and
and
was able to con very rapidly kind of
continue down a path that i wanted to
to go down there cool and were there any
what are the secrets in terms of you
said you overcame your anxiety of
picking up the phone
so anyone that doesn't like the dreaded
cold calling
or reaching out to prospects on the
phone or even warm leads they'd rather
contact them
on different channels yeah by email
whatever it may be linkedin messenger
whatever um
have you got any tips for for people
that that don't like using the phone to
to make it less of a sharp object and
more of a thing that's going to make you
money
yeah the piece of advice that i got
early on
and most people probably are that are
watching this probably are already doing
this aware of this type of thing but
i was told hey before you start just
like just sit and just breathe a little
bit just breathe in
like five times in and out five times
and then go ahead and do it because
i think we we sat close to each other i
think he could tell
i was like i would be doing something
and i'd be think and then i'd go right
into
just calling and it's just my my energy
was
nervous and so he was just trying to get
me to slow down a bit
breathe a couple of times and and that
helped me
so still to this day before i start cold
calling it
i'll i'll do that um just to kind of
level set and then in a in a more real
life
tactical you you you've gotten over
that part i think for me it's it's
if you're really struggling and i've
dealt with this well past
my first cold-calling job like years
into being
an inside salesperson hitting a period
where i hated cold calling and really
didn't want to
uh one very tactical thing
find a buddy so find a co-worker find a
teammate
and and just invite them to come do a
calling session with you
two times a week just to so you you're
not going to want to let that other
person down you're
right you're inviting somebody else
you're not going to want to let them
down
that's going to at least get you back in
the swing and then you'll probably
realize
this isn't as big of a deal as i thought
it was this can be a little bit fun
you know and then continue to have those
buddy teammate sessions
but that might help you get over that
initial fear
so that's something that you could do
now uh
do a zoom call whatever um and and
that's always been a favorite way for me
to kind of get over it
but in a more long-term way i would
think i would say if you're
dealing with serious cold call
reluctance
start looking at the process that leads
up to
what you have to do to make a cold call
because uh there were times in my career
where
it was so hard to pull a list it was so
hard to find the right people
it was so hard to get the dialer
connected to my phone
by the time that i had everything in
place to cold call it was 45 minutes
later
and i was so frustrated that i'm not in
a good mindset to make cold calls right
now i'm frustrated that it took so long
to get enabled to make cold calls so
that's a big one i think a lot of people
run into that
take a day redesign the process that
leads up to you being able to make a
cold call
so that when you get that feeling when
you feel like oh yeah i could do it
right now i
i'm i'm in it i have the right momentum
it only takes a couple of minutes for
you to be able to
to get up and going nice dude so a few
great points there in terms of
relaxing breathing in taking a minute or
so before you actually go into it
getting perhaps a friend or a buddy to
hammer out a session with you maybe do
an hour's worth of cold calls in the
morning afternoon whether you choose
and preparation so you made a good point
um
i can remember i did a little post on
this on linkedin earlier actually when i
was um a different
startup marketing company a few years
back now we had no clients we had
no customers at all we had no digital
presence everything was brand new whilst
we were ramping up digital marketing seo
so we had no inbound for about six
months so every morning i'd come in
make a few hours of cold calls try to
set appointments in the city
and i'd leave my chair 11 12 o'clock for
lunch
and uh i'd literally be dripping in
sweat because i hated it that much
my chair my leather chair would be just
covered in sweat because i didn't
realize i was even doing it until i
moved
so you could tell how much i didn't
enjoy it um and that was for a number of
things one because
i didn't know how to ask great questions
um i didn't really know what i was doing
i'd never heard of pattern interrupts
back then
and i was i i wasn't breathing like you
say i wasn't doing it a friend
and i wasn't prepared i was just pulling
data off google rather than having like
everything ready a system or a dialer so
all those things that you said make make
complete sense to me
cool man and um before before we move on
to
the next the next thing for you is there
anything else you'd like to share with
us in terms of
what you picked up from from that role
oh man that inside sales is is
tough and you there are tons of nuances
and it's definitely in my opinion not a
not something that you can ever really
master because it's always changing
so uh if you're thinking about getting
into inside sales and you like that
fantastic if you're in inside sales and
you're hoping to one day reach a point
where you've mastered something
i don't think that that it's a journey
that will end well for you
uh just from my experience okay no
i completely agree and would you say
that's james because there's never a
predictable predictable outcome as much
you can practice you never know what the
customer on the other end of the phone
or the conversation is going to say
yeah well i would say that the reason
that is is because to me
the key factor in being a successful
inside salesperson is understanding that
everything's always changing
right so understanding that i need to be
up on the newest technology
i may not need to use it but i need to
at least be aware of it
maybe my competition's using it uh
what's the newest way that i need to be
engaging with
people based on what's happening in the
world i mean just
i mean geez look at what's going on i
mean you have to be
a a really in tune
professional in order to to kind of have
continued success
um in any role but especially in one
that that is so
nuanced like inside sales love that man
i can completely agree
okay all right cool so that was the
first taste of b2b and are there any
other
career highlights that we should dive
into that you might have to my stories
in before we get to the current role
where you're at now
yeah so i worked at the uh the
paper company and uh left
on the money chase to become a physician
recruiter
and i was horrible at that so bad at it
um what is that is recruitment's hard
yeah yeah
i was i was recruiting
gastroenterologists
for temporary work in remote parts of
the united states
so not an easy ask the people
that i worked with were fantastic they
were all super talented
lots of them were very very successful i
however
was not cut out for that role uh i did
it for about 10 months
and did everybody a favor and got out of
there um
and and that's what led me to my first
sdr role which
really has been um
the part of b2b sales that i've fallen
completely
head over heels in love with and have
built a career around now and
everything i do revolves around sales
development so
you know the lowest point of my uh kind
of b2b
sales career led to the best phase of it
so um yeah i think uh not not a
highlight but definitely a good stepping
stone
into kind of what i've been doing
recently here
cool man i guess it's good to know what
you're not cut out for and uh
i think absolutely absolutely
yeah yeah it was a it was pretty tough
man it's a hot gig
yeah it was a humbling experience um it
was a
it was yeah humbling is a perfect word
for it
cool man is there anything else before
we get to your current role um
uh outbound views or anything else you
think would be a value to our audience
from the journey so far yeah i mean
i think if you if somebody were to look
at my
resume they may think
or label me as maybe a job hopper or
at certain points in my career
i've been concerned about that of um you
know i only stayed here 10 months or i
haven't been here long enough
and i i my piece of advice just
honestly from my own experience would be
just how i put it everybody's better off
if you're
self-aware enough to
really be honest about the situation i
think there's
two sides to every coin so there's been
moments in my career where i've said i
want to get out of here i want to leave
this place isn't for me and i'm about
six months in
the honeymoon period's over but i really
am just being kind of a brat and
if i stick it out it ends up being you
know that i just
was having a little bit of a tough time
and needed to kind of check myself
other times in my career that's
i'm feeling the same way and it's
absolutely a situation where i need to
make a move right so i would just say
self-awareness as you're kind of moving
through your career especially in
today's world as a salesperson
or or you know as somebody who's growing
a business i mean just self-awareness is
just so
key and knowing when to pivot
when to take a step when to take a leap
if you need to
so um those are all things that i've
kind of learned along the way and it's
landed me in a place where i get to do
things that i love doing every day so
super happy about that makes sense makes
sense and knowing when
knowing when to get out of something
always always uh i think is
smart um rather than just staying
sticking something out for the sake of
it
or because you're not humble enough to
admit that it's not going well or it's
not going right so that makes perfect
sense
yeah it's not doing anybody any favors
100 all right let's move into present
day
um and we want to get into some
actionable tips on how
you're generating pipeline that we can
share with everyone tuning in
and so i'd love to learn what you're
doing right now outbound view and what
you have done in years gone by james to
generate new clients new customers
and new cash in the bank from client
acquisition so
whether that's some of the offline
strategies that work well for you be it
cold calling cold email
or some of the digital strategies as
well um bit linkedin or digital
marketing if we could just perhaps start
with the gold ones move into the digital
and uh what you're seeing success with
that'll be awesome dude yeah
absolutely so i think i've worked at
different companies at different stages
in their kind of growth so at each
point it's kind of called for a
different approach right so there have
been times where i've worked for
uh firms where it was
really just absolutely made sense to
make a bunch of cold calls and
send some emails so i i
absolutely have uh
spent and and seen real success and
using the phone
cold email works cold calling works not
for everybody not all the time
not in every industry but absolutely for
certain people
it does um so that'll always kind of be
something that i
think about and mention you know when
i'm talking about ways to
to grow a business i just think there is
no replacement especially the phone
i think email gets tougher and tougher
year by year but the phone i think is
just
uh like my favorite analogy is the phone
is like spear fishing you can just it's
a little messy it's a little crazy but
if you're good enough and skilled enough
you can grab one and it's immediate
emailing's like traditional fishing you
got a pretty lure
you write a great email you cast it out
you have to wait for somebody to engage
with it and respond
those two methods of outreach i'm always
going to advocate for
uh here at outbound view based on kind
of where we are
in our journey as a business it makes
zero sense for us to be doing
a lot of cold calling or a lot of cold
outbound
uh i know blake's uh been on the show
blake johnson is our ceo
um he is a fantastic uh marketer
and has a fantastic marketing mind um
and so he's done a great job of building
a business where
uh he's got a great inbound uh
system set up and so uh i don't work on
that side of the business i don't work
on the
the our business development the
outbound
view business development side of the
business um but
you know i think just blake
uh recognizing that yeah i mean what we
need to do at this point is build some
inbound and get some inbound and then
at a certain point we'll look to
outbound and
deploy all these strategies that we know
work when you're at the right stage of
your business and i think that's
um so often never mentioned on linkedin
right it's like should i do this well i
mean it depends on where you're at right
i think it
it absolutely depends on yeah if you
have any customers do you
you know i mean i think it's a great
point and
often when i interview people just like
yourself on the show
yeah their social media content might be
heavily geared towards cold calling cold
outreach and then when i actually chat
to business owners it turns out they're
doing a multi-channel approach
and a lot of their business is in fact
inbound so be it by
you know page one google organic results
traffic and then leads coming from that
or be a paid advertisement be it social
so whilst they might be talking about
cold calling every day all day
a lot of their business inbound so it's
always funny to see that spin but
that's not the case for everyone that's
why i always recommend a motor channel
approach that
use all to utilize all the the channels
that your customers are on it's just
what makes sense right
yeah and i think there are plenty of
people that will tell
and have conversations with and tell
them you should not
hire us to cold call right i mean um
i think my thing is if
i love talking about cold calling right
if if you've got to do it or you're at a
point where it makes sense to do it
there's lots of different things to talk
about and ways to be great at it
but absolutely it it amazes me how
quickly people jump to
um have to do outbound before
thinking about any of those other uh
ways to to
to grow which is a huge reason why i
love working here with blake
because he understands that yeah it
makes sense and is there any scenarios
that you could perhaps share with us
james that are situations where it would
make sense to do outbound like cold
calling and some where it may not
from perhaps stories that you've had
with your own customers
yeah i mean they're people that are much
more qualified uh to talk about this and
at a much uh deeper level than i can uh
most likely but
from my perspective i think it's based
on
you know the product that you're selling
the acv
the length of the sales cycle how long
you've been in business how many current
customers you have you know there's so
many different
elements and i think that there's
absolutely ways that you can
test the waters because i don't think
that there's a certain formula
or a chart that you could fill out or a
checklist that you could go down and say
up all right we're ready for outbound
right i don't think that doesn't exist
but there are ways that you can test the
waters
before you start building uh some
sprawling
outbound business function i think
they're just
with technology and different resources
out there there are ways that you can
see
okay hey let's run a smaller set of
some outbound emotions and and um
before we dive completely in cool man
and we mentioned a bit earlier about
cold calling kind of the mindset you
need to adapt
and things like partnering up with a
buddy and stuff like that
um but we didn't talk too much about
process and
um perhaps you could share with us a few
actionable tips in terms of
your own strategy to break through to
the decision makers is so anyone that's
thinking
yeah we do a bit of digital marketing
but we also need to do a bit of cold
reach to kind of keep the funnel keep
the pipeline full of leads
um have you got any tips you can share
with us in terms of kind of strategies
to break through the gatekeeper how to
actually connect with
the decision makers and most importantly
how to
kind of get more meetings done when you
are through to them
yeah absolutely i think it starts with
identifying uh a process for
how you're going to find the people
reach out to the people document what's
happened
and then continue to keep in touch with
those people
right i i think uh it's it's you've got
to look in all those areas right so how
am i going to find these people
am i going to find them on linkedin i'm
going to pull some lists whatever
great i'm going to uh pull all of those
people in
and organize it you have to start there
i think
so many times we're so eager to get
going that we're not
uh before we know it we've got 18
different spreadsheets and four
different lists in the crm and i don't
know
what's what right we've got duplicates
we've got triplicates
whatever right so uh organization is
huge for me
so uh success in
breaking through to the dm uh
starts with being organized on your
calendar it sounds crazy but it's true
uh and then you know bringing that all
the way through to
using that organization to make sure
that you're prospecting
every single day um there are
uh you know things that i believe that
just
have to happen every day you have to be
reaching out to net new people
so people that you've never reached out
to or that you have yet to connect with
never heard your voice and then you have
to be diligent
about follow-up i think anybody
that's been in sales for any amount of
time
or business for any amount of time that
that's been successful knows that
following up and and and that's really
where
a lot of of of new opportunities come
from is just the willingness to
to attempt to continue
to get somebody's attention so i think
you have to build a system like that
where every morning you're just
following up with the people that you
sent emails to
a week ago or whatever that system is
um and then i think when you finally get
to the point of okay
wow i've got a hold on all my
organization i know who i'm reaching out
to i've got a system for follow-up
really when it comes to when you're on
the phone
and trying to get to that decision maker
or you've got that decision maker i
think
really the best piece of broad advice
that i could give
would be to be as clear
about your intentions as possible so why
are you calling who are you
who are you calling from why are you
calling be as clear as possible as early
as possible in the conversation
um and then cut the tension by being
uh by addressing the obvious of
the absurdity of the situation right
you've never heard of me
i'm calling you we've never had a
conversation but i'm hoping that you'll
give me some time
this is crazy i realize that uh the
self-deprecation
uh will help you immensely so
i think that that's some good broad high
level advice that i can give
that that you can go out there and try
that's a pretty solid strategy man
all right so we've got organized who are
actually targeting rather than messing
around with spreadsheets for days
actually get get some organization on
who you want to be targeting the type of
companies
and uh the the ideal customer profile i
guess
spend some time prospecting each and
every day um make sure to follow up
so before we continue the points have
you got any advice on following up james
because
everyone has their um their own ways of
doing it
so obviously if we're talking about cold
out which is a bit different but we've
talked about warm leads it's
slightly slightly different things so i
mean it's always a tricky one
and each each guest we have on the show
has has a little bit of different advice
it's always interesting to see what is
the best way to follow up whether it's
sharing content
whether it's leaving them like a
voicemail linkedin or sending them like
a video email
what works for you james what do you
recommend well i think it
again uh starts with that first
conversation that you're having
i i think follow-up has to be a two-way
street
so often follow-up feels like a
one-sided conversation
and it's almost like we're we're asking
our prospects hey are you okay if i
continue to talk to you while you don't
listen for the next six months until
you're ready to listen to me
it's kind of silly so what we've found
that works is when
and this hurts because a lot of the
times you end up getting some truth
about the situation right but when you
go that extra layer you say hey
uh would you i understand it's not the
right time right now
we'd love to send you some information
and keep in touch for when it is the
right time in six months or whatever
that
talk track is and um you know they'll
say yeah that's fine go ahead and send
it over and then in your mind you're
like up
put them in the follow-up sequence we're
going to be talking
you know three times a month i'm gonna
be you know engaging with them and this
is an engaged prospect where if you
just ask them one extra layer of
something to the effect of
great so i can send you that information
would you mind giving me some feedback
you know when i send you this would you
mind just shoot me some feedback on what
i send over
that's that's kind of how you know i i
know you probably have tons of people
sending you stuff i don't want to send
you something that's not valuable so
just give me some feedback on if what i
sense valuable
and then i i'll you know once you have
that buy-in
um like i said you may get some truth
come out oh
no i don't want to do that i'm not going
to respond
you know what click
right uh which happens um but then
you also are making it a two-way street
right so every follow-up is asking for
some sort of engagement you've set that
tone the first time
with the follow-up you say hey i'm gonna
follow up but i'm gonna expect you to do
something
for me in return not like that but
essentially that's that's kind of the
scenario that you're setting up to
ensure that they're engaged right and
then
uh i think we like to fool ourselves
sometimes so that our numbers look a
little bit better
right or that our metrics are a little
bit leafier
you know if we're in sales or a
marketing or a business we're all
lying to ourselves at times
we'll say to our colleagues or our team
members or our boss if we're employed
that yeah we've got these leads they're
looking great they're going to close at
the month
end or next quarter they're 100 coming
in every time
my target and uh like you said what we
should be doing is when we're following
up actually
um it sounds like almost going for the
no so
giving giving the customer the option to
opt out so i understand you may not be
interested
absolutely fine let me know however if
it makes sense let's schedule another
time to discuss this information
and doing that perhaps whilst they're on
the line so each time you're
getting them to take action so you
actually agree a little bit
yeah just a little bit of skin in the
game yeah just just a little bit of
not unreasonable i don't expect a vp of
whatever to
engage with me at a high level but but
if
if they're saying they're going to do
something or saying that it's okay for
me to keep in touch
um let's make it a two-way
keep-and-touch kind of thing so
got it and how would you like to secure
that is that just a case of sending an
invite whilst they're on the line just
for the next step
or via email or if it makes sense right
i
i think um you know the
that and that's always the challenging
part about playbooks and and tactics and
you know if it's contextual yeah i mean
if they're obviously trying to blow you
off trying to get them to
pull up the invite isn't you know that's
tone deaf and not going to work but
i think in in most cases in a very
general sense i think a realistic thing
to do would be to say great
i'm going to send you an email that's
going to go over this this and this
i understand that it's not the right
time that you've got some you know it's
six months out or whatever the situation
is you kind of
rephrase the situation to let them know
you understand
and then you say i'm going to send you
this email and then i you know if you
just respond back to me and let me know
if this resonates with you
you know it it and just try and and let
them know that you're gonna expect some
feedback
uh now if they agree to giving you this
feedback that
does not mean that you'll get the
feedback uh
most of the time uh you still don't but
you can reference that in your
a follow-up email hey last time we spoke
i know
i was out of the blue bad timing but you
did
you did say you'd give me some feedback
totally okay if you
you know i mean you can kind of um play
against those expectations that you're
that you're setting at the very
beginning i'm a huge fan
of wow we're all about respecting our
prospects respect their time uh
hey if we're engaging if we're going to
engage in a business
conversation or maybe even a business
relationship
i'm going to require some respect in
this
scenario too you know um and so i think
i i i try to keep that
mindset top of mind i think a lot of the
time
especially people that are cold calling
younger
folks that are sdrs solopreneurs that
are maybe just
trying to make it you know we sometimes
can feel like um
like we're less than or i'll follow up
at your convenience and do whatever you
say
you know it's a powerful thing to ask
for something in return and it's also a
good way to filter out the people that
are
tire cookers love it man making it a
two-way street and making it an even
playing field that makes that makes
perfect sense and before we wrap things
up james are there any other
digital channels perhaps perhaps
linkedin or any others that you've had
success with to generate pipeline
generate meetings generate deals
and absolutely absolutely so
linkedin again largely based on the
context of the industry the people that
you go after i worked
for four years in a space where nobody
was on linkedin
linkedin was not a strategy that i could
use to generate meetings at all
i will say we have several clients that
we work with today
where linkedin is a strategy that
generates
you know more conversations more
interest it
it uh linkedin is absolutely
still has been and will continue to be a
place where
uh in in certain instances you can
generate pipeline
um through building a personal brand but
not even
you know we're we're not doing any crazy
personal branding we're just
connecting with the right people in in a
respectful way
and executing playbooks that uh very
similar to what we would do on the phone
or email right just
tailoring it to a different channel so i
think
um anybody out there that that
is thinking about trying it it's
definitely worth
a shot right there are times where we've
tried it and it's falling a little flat
with certain industries certain icps
other times it's fantastically uh
successful so
um my advice in general would be to try
everything at least once
when it comes to growing your business
right try every channel
um they're always changing and who knows
if it didn't work six months ago it may
work in another six
sound advice man well thanks so much for
coming on james everybody you've been
tuning in to sam's business growth show
where we sit down with business leaders
experts and entrepreneurs from around
around the globe we find out their story
how marketing's helped along the way in
their excuse of tips and insights to
help you score up at your sales and
skyrocket your business
james you'd like to ask everyone that
comes on if you could thank just one
person either dead or alive
having a positive influence on yourself
and your career who would that be and
why
oh i have to thank my mom uh she passed
away when i was 21.
so she never really got to see me become
a responsible adult with a career
or do anything cool things like this uh
but i i i know that she's absolutely the
the dna that gave me all of my sales
ability so i know she's happy and and
shout out to moms
all across the world because they're the
best moms are
absolutely uh the inspiration for all
great things
in my opinion good stuff man james tell
us a bit more about the best way people
can learn from you how they can connect
with you
and how they can get in touch with york
itself yeah
linkedin is a fantastic place to find me
uh i'm super active there i've got
some podcasts all the links to
everything i'm involved with
is on linkedin though so you can search
me there and uh
find out how to get in touch with me
awesome dude well if you enjoyed this
show there's tons of other episodes
with marketing business and sales
leaders um just search sam's business
growth show
on apple podcast spotify youtube or your
podcast channel of choice
james thanks so much for coming on dude
thank you for having me sam this was a
blast are you tired
of constantly hunting for new customers
you could be missing out on regular
inbound opportunities
all because your website isn't on the
first page of google
perhaps you're already spending lots of
money on advertising but your website is
failing to convert
all of your hard-earned visitors into a
consistent flow
of new customers if you'd like to learn
more about our unusual approach
that brings idle clients straight to you
connect with sam dunning on linkedin
or book a free 20-minute consultation
via webchoiceuk.com
that's webchoiceuk.com
subscribe today for more digital
marketing sales and business growth tips
from the experts